# PDF to Excel Converter

Converts PDF tables to an Excel sheet, trying to keep the same columns and rows as much as possible. Code generated by ChatGPT 3.5.

Added GUI support using tkinter.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Make sure you have Python installed on your system. You can download it from the official website: [Python Downloads](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

### Installation

Install the required libraries before running the script. Open a terminal and run the following command:

```bash
pip install tabula-py pandas
```

If using the GUI, make sure your python is ready to use tkinter. If you receive the error: no module named _tkinter, try running the following command:

```bash
brew intall python-tk
```

## Usage

Clone this repository or download the Python script (converter.py) to your local machine.

Replace 'path_to_your_pdf_file.pdf' with the actual path to the PDF file you want to convert in the pdf_to_excel.py script.

Adjust the excel_output_path variable in the script to set the desired location and name for the output Excel file.

Open a terminal, navigate to the directory containing the script, and run the following command:

```bash
python converter.py
```

If using the GUI, you do not need to modify any python files. Change directory to where the gui file is located and run the following command:

```bash
python converter_gui.py
```

an interface will pop up where you can enter the path to the PDF you want to convert, the PDF pages that contain the table you want to convert, and the path to the resulting excel file.

After running either script, an Excel file containing the extracted table will be generated in the specified location.
